which came first the chicken or the egg
and the answer is of course they both
did one inside the other a question I'm
often asked is how can you tell if an
egg is really fresh without of course
breaking it well you can try the water
test take a bowl of cold water and then
put in some eggs and you'll notice that
the fresh one will sink to the bottom
while the one that's not quite fresh
will stand up on its pointy end and the
one that's quite stale will bounce
around on the surface simple another
question you cook some hard-boiled eggs
you put them in the refrigerator along
with the fresh ones and then later you
don't know which is which how can you
tell again without breaking the eggs
it's simple just take them for a spin as
you can see the hard board one likes to
spin like mad whereas the fresh one
doesn't at all now one of my favorite
recipes is bacon annex and I'm not doing
that
on consuming passions today but instead
a recipe that uses those elements it is
spaghetti carbonara and classic and this
is the consuming passions version first
I get my spaghetti going in a large pot
of lightly salted boiling water i grate
a little nutmeg and then plunge in some
of things spaghetti stirring it around
once and then leaving it well alone now
while it's cooking I prepare some good
smoky bacon by slicing it up into strips
and then I crisp it in a large nonstick
frying pan now I pour off the excess
bacon fat turn the heat down low and add
a little butter and just a little extra
virgin olive oil now the next phase is
in a large bowl i whisk two whole eggs
did you know by the way that egg whites
are among the only alkaline foods you
can find along with baking powder most
of our foods are acidic and I had two
egg yolks
now although some recipes call for just
egg yolks I find this dish less rich
using whole eggs as well as the two egg
yolks incidentally were you aware that
an egg yolk is half water yes it is and
34% lipids
that's fats and so on and 16% protein
and minerals and I'll stir in little
cream
tablespoon or two if this is starting to
look quite rich remember it's going in
with quite a lot of spaghetti and I'm
adding something else besides the
grinding a black pepper a pinch of white
pepper because I like to have the two
different flavors and whether black or
white they come from the same plant by
the nigrum which suggests black native
of India and Italy one so valuable it
was used as currency now to cheese I
like to grate in my own Parmesan cheese
and a little certainly goes a long way
in this dish and I add a cup of finely
chopped parsley the Italian parsley this
mixture is now ready for the final stage
of preparation just moments before
serving the spaghetti is drained and it
doesn't matter if a little water is led
to the spaghetti the pan with the bacon
is put on medium heat and once sizzling
as here I tossed through the spaghetti a
large wok like this is great for this
purpose amongst the spaghetti has
started to steam i stir through the egg
mixture and cook to a smooth consistency
making sure not to overcook I'll finish
up with scrambled eggs now an optional
extra little cooked asparagus or
broccoli is here to color crunch and
added freshness are then tossed through
a little more Parmesan cheese a little
more parsley and it's time to serve on a
large warmed bowl degree of difficulty
very low preparation time well the whole
dish can be prepared in 25 minutes
capability it's best eaten straight away
but maybe reheated stirring through a
little extra cream or stock to remove a
final flourish of a little more parsley
a little more parmesan
and a little more black pepper and the
dish is ready to eat the consuming
passions version of spaghetti carbonara
a bacon an excellent dish especially
served with a salad and some crusty
bread and possibly for one accompaniment
a Barbera Australian from consuming
passions until next time